We've now looked to how to spawn the particle emitters at runtime.
We can also implement them as particle components, which is what we want to do for the trail effect
to get the result looking like this, which will allow this projectile to keep spawning the particles
over its life based on the updating position of the projectile.
So back in the projecto header, we're just going to create a new pointer to the new particle system
component type named particle trial.
We can, of course, copy the property from any of the existing components as well, want all of these
same metter information here and the U.
Particle system component is essentially a component class, much like our Sene components that we've
been using, which means that we can attach this directly to an actor or another component within an
actor in our classes and also give it a position in the world, which is what we're going to want to
do.
We're going to stick this to the back end of our projecto.
And then inside of this component, all is really doing, of course, is managing quite a lot of stuff
in the C++ code.
But it just has housed within the component a U.
Particle system, just like the one that we've used previously, which will allow us to attach this
permanently to our projecto so that it will follow the position, like with any other scene component
that we've used before.
So if that declared as a new property in our header, we can move over to our code file and we just
need to include the library where this is found, which is the particles.
Forward slash particle system component dot h.
Then as a quick challenge for you, just like you to create and then attach the new part component to
the root component that we already have, so pause the video and give that one to go.
OK.
So we've done this plenty of times at this point.
So let's go through this one.
We just need to say that our particle trial is equal to create default sub object.
Of the type you particle system component and then provide some text.
I've gone for particle travel.
Then for the attachments will set the particle trail to set up attachment.
And attach it to the root component.
And that's really all that we needed to do for this class.
We can now head back over to the editor.
With those changes compiled.
When that's ready, we just need to go in to the projectile blueprint and set the new projectile to
template to the projectile trail emitter.
And then when we press play with these changes made, we can see that's working pretty well.
So this is also going to allow us to hide the distance that we're spawning this away from the tank turret
as an example here.
I've set mine to be 100 units forward of the end of the turret.
And I'd recommend playing around with some of the values here.
If you move this a little bit too far away, you get the results looking kind of too obvious that the
projectile was falling randomly in the air.
And if you move it too close to the turret, the projectile is likely to hit another component within
the tank and end up destroying itself or getting stuck on.
Depending on your project setup.
So I think for this example, 100 units works really well.
It avoids the initial collision when we're moving.
So I'm going to leave it.
Is this.
And because of the new particle system, I think this is actually looking pretty cool because that initial
puff of smoke is kind of appearing at the very end of the barrel, which looks like that's kind of being
forced out of the barrel and then firing that projectile.
So for me, that's looking pretty cool.
With that done, though, we've now seen the two main ways that that we can use the particles in our
C++ code, either by spoiling them at runtime or implementing them as a component, as we've now done
many times before in the project.